hello movie fans and welcome back to
another full movie recap with movie
reveals
in today's video we're going to break
down the brilliant sci-fi movie called
the abyss warning guys spoiler alert yes
i'm afraid i'm going to spill the beans
about what the movie is about including
all the best bits of which there are
many but that's half the fun with my
recaps you know that already
at least you can then decide whether you
want to watch the whole movie or not if
you like good sci-fi with a good cast
then this movie will definitely please
now before i start with a recap i just
want to say that this movie won the
academy award for best visual effects
and was nominated for three more academy
awards
now for the recap and by the way
feel free to comment below also don't
forget to share some love by smashing
the like button
the montana a u.s navy nuclear missile
submarine operating deep in the cayman
trough in the caribbean sea encounters
an unidentified submerged object moving
at high speed the object passes very
close to the submarine and the vessel
loses power power is restored after a
few moments however the sub has drifted
too close to the underwater canyon wall
skimming it and throwing off the sub's
trajectory an officer is able to launch
the sub's emergency beacon before the
sub collides head-on with another rock
wall and floods sinking further and
killing the entire crew
as soviet ships and submarines head
toward the area in an attempt to salvage
the sub and its missiles and with the
hurricane moving in the americans decide
that the quickest way to mount a rescue
is for a u.s navy seal team to be
inserted onto a privately owned
experimental underwater oil drilling
platform the deep core which they will
then use as their base of operations
the platform's designer and chief
engineer dr lindsey brigman is furious
at the notion of her rig being
commandeered for the mission
her estranged husband bud brigman is the
foreman of the platform however benthic
petroleum the riggs financier has
already agreed to cooperate with the
navy and has promised the rig's crew
substantial bonus pay lindsay herself
travels down to the rig with the seal
team to oversee the operation personally
after eight hours in a compression
chamber lindsay and the seal team emerge
no one however sees that seal leader
coffee has developed high pressure
nervous syndrome when he has a slight
hand tremor he steadies his hand and
joins the rest of the crew
lindsay and bud promptly begin arguing
with each other revealing that they are
a separated married couple bud becomes
furious and throws his wedding band into
a chemical toilet he relents after a few
moments and fishes it out staining his
hand blue with the toilet's sanitation
fluid
the reagan seal teams prepare to
investigate the submarine wreck one of
the seals shows crew members hippie and
catfish a high-tech underwater breathing
system that uses oxygenated fluid
instead of air
the system allows its wearer to survive
at extreme ocean depths without
succumbing to the intense water pressure
coffee himself leaves the entire
operation issuing orders and amberly
reprimanding the roughneck crew when
they begin joking with each other while
searching the sub for survivors the
collective team encounters strange
creatures they can't identify the same
beings that inadvertently cause the
submarine to sink
lindsay piloting one of the rigs three
minute subs experiences the same type of
power loss that the montana did
while searching a compartment on the
montana bud's partner jammer the rig
crew's biggest member sees a strange
glowing creature in panics
when he tries to escape the chamber he
damages a valve on his breathing
apparatus and begins to convulse blood
and his comrades are able to save jammer
the accident puts him in a coma
as the storm intensifies coffee and his
team communicate with their commanding
officer on the surface who tells them
that a russian attack sub was detected
in the area the team is ordered to
retrieve a trident missile warhead from
the montana and armour as a contingency
if the russians get too close to the
montana
coffee and the seals take the rig's
largest minisub without authorization
using the sub's large mechanized arm
they are able to open a launch door of
the montana and extract one of the
tritons however the minnesota they
commandeered was the only vehicle
capable of disconnecting the station's
umbilical cord to its parent surface
ship the benthic explorer
upon their return the seals removed the
warhead and turned the sub over to its
pilot one night who takes it out in an
attempt to disconnect the umbilicus
by this time the explorer is in the
middle of the hurricane and being tossed
violently by powerful winds and waves
generated by the storm the ship's motion
makes it impossible for one knight to
disconnect the cable which is jerking
about with such power that it begins to
drag the station along the bottom
towards the cayman trough the stress of
the cable causes the derrick crane that
supports the station to break away from
the ship momentarily stopping the
station's slide towards the trench
however the heavy crane sinks toward the
reagan bud gives the order to brace for
the impact the crane lands on the bottom
narrowly missing the rig
the crew are temporarily relieved that
the crane didn't hit the rig however it
rolls into the chasm and the rig is
violently yanked towards the precipice
causing massive damage and flooding
killing six of the station's crew one of
the seal team and injuring several of
the surviving crew and seals the rig is
not pulled into the trench stopping a
few feet short of the drop off
tensions mount as the platform has lost
contact with the surface and anger of
the crew towards the seals intensifies
over the deaths of their friends and
co-workers the crew begins to experience
more strange encounters from what appear
to be underwater beings referred to as
non-terrestrial intelligences or ntis by
hippie which the paranoid coffee
determines to be a threat while
activating oxygen tanks outside the rig
lindsey encounters one of the smaller
probes she's spotted while at the
submarine and then a much larger and
brilliantly illuminated vehicle which
she touches
as both vehicles sputter out of sight
into the chasm she is able to get a few
pictures when she shows the pictures to
the crew they're quite astonished but
seem to believe her story but takes her
aside thinking she may be having
hallucinations but she assures him that
she isn't nor is she suffering from hp s
another incident involves an encounter
with a tentacle that appears to be made
entirely of water but can move like a
snake it also morphs into the faces of
both lindsay and bud in an apparent
attempt to communicate when coffee finds
the tentacle's origin in the rig's
diving pool he panics and closes one of
the hatches cutting it off and the
remainder sinks into the depths
when the end of the tentacle looks at
him coffee becomes even more terrified
and paranoid strapping the warhead to
big geek one of the platform's remote
operated vehicles coffee makes a fateful
decision to send both of them down to
the bottom of the trench where the ntis
appear to be coming from is one of his
teams skonik forced the rig crew and
lindsey into the rig's kitchen and lock
them in
leaving sconic behind keep them from
escaping lindsay tries to reason with
him through the door when it suddenly
opens and jammer appears having come out
of his coma and taken sconic down
meanwhile coffee has dogged and jammed
the door to the rigs sub bay and waits
until it's time to launch big geek due
to the damage caused to the rig butt and
catfish have to swim to the sub bay
under the rig in freezing cold water
blood makes it to the bay having to
leave cat behind in another hatch bud
tries to sneak up on coffee intent on
hitting him with a large pipe but
decides to grab the pistol coffee had
tucked into his belt
[Music]
coffee spots him and tries to shoot bud
but the pistol is empty one the seal
team monk and previously unloaded the
pistol
bud and coffee fight hand to hand with
coffee finally wrapping a cable around
bud's neck
suddenly cat appears and punches coffee
in the face knocking him on his back
coffee retreats to the sub and escapes
moving into a position where he can
launch big geek
bud and lindsey intervene but don's a
diving soup and chases after coffee
finally tying the runaway rov to a
railing on the rig
he is picked up by lindsey piloting one
of the rig's subs after a furious chase
along the sea bottom lindsay disables
both subs and stops coffee who falls off
the edge of the trough and is crushed
within his submersible by the pressure
however they cannot stop the rov from
taking the warhead down into the trench
trapped in the rapidly flooding sub
lindsay orders blood to use the ship's
soul diving suit to swim back to the
platform towing her body
while she will drown she banks on the
very cold water preserving her via the
mammalian diving reflex until she can be
resuscitated in the platform
a very tense situation develops while
her comrades try to resuscitate her when
using emergency equipment fails bud
frantically begins to shake and even
slap lindsay in an effort to bring her
back all everyone thinks is too late but
doesn't give up
miraculously she regains consciousness
much to the relief of the entire crew
being the most qualified and strongest
diver left bud then dons the
experimental diving suit given to him by
the remaining seals in which the diver
breathes an oxygenated fluid instead of
air blood will be able to descend to
incredible depths without injury as his
body will not be crushed by the pressure
by having liquid in the lungs rather
than gas
bud's mission is to dive to the bottom
of the trench two miles down and deeper
than anyone has ever gone before and
disarm the warhead before it detonates
the drop to the bottom takes a
significant amount of time the pressure
does affect him but lindsey helps him
regain control by talking to him about
their personal life
blood touches down and dismantles the
bomb after a few tense moments where his
glow stick makes it impossible to
determine the color of the wire he has
to cut he cuts the proper wire disarming
the bomb however when he checks the
gauge for the remainder of his breathing
liquid he finds that he doesn't have
enough to make it back to the rig
lindsey becomes distressed telling blood
to start back hoping they can breathe
shallowly enough to make it bud tells
her via a risk keypad that he always
knew it was a one-way trip but that he
had to go to save both the platform crew
and the ntis
he transmits a final heartfelt message
saying that he loves her and still
considers her to be his wife and she
tells him how much she loves him before
assuming he's dead
the ntis find bud as his oxygen runs out
and bring him onto their ship an immense
glowing city on the floor of the crevice
they provide him with air to breathe at
his normal pressure and engage in silent
communication with him
they then show him several television
clips they have stored of humanity's
destructive behavior silently explaining
that they have left humans alone but now
believe humans are too self-destructive
to continue this behavior
they also show but a few current
newscasts of an incredible phenomenon
along continental coasts on the surface
the ntis are using their ability to
control water to form 1 000 feet high
tsunamis off the coasts of every
continent on earth threatening to
destroy humanity
bada asks the ntis what right they have
to judge the human race he has shown
historical clips of hitler war and
genocide
however when the ntis had intercepted
bud's transmission love you wife they
decide to stop the storm and tsunamis
realizing humans do possess compassion
for each other back on the rig everyone
is saddened by the loss of bud and are
waiting for benthic to begin a rescue
operation
however they pick up a tight message
from bud telling them that he's alive
and well and that they should brace
themselves the ntis raise their entire
city from the chasm but it is so massive
it lifts most of the naval fleet patrol
in the area above the water including
the explorer the rig is also on the city
and everyone seems fine including the
underwater crew who should have died
without decompressing hippie and lindsay
conclude that the nt eyes and prevented
them from experiencing the bends
lindsay sees blood emerge from the
underwater city and they rush to each
other greeting each other as a newlywed
couple would they engage in a passionate
kiss
the end